W3SCHOOLS 1.1 - Intro to video for w3schools
W3SCHOOLS 1.2 - HTML tag reference
W3SCHOOLS 1.3 - HTML attribute reference
W3SCHOOLS 1.4 - CSS property reference
W3SCHOOLS 1.5 - CSS selector reference
W3SCHOOLS 1.6 - Outro to video for w3schools



W3SCHOOLS 1.1 - Intro to video for w3schools
Chris from Codify Academy here.
In this video i'm going to show you how to use w3schools as a reference when you're coding.
This will serve as a dictionary for you, with a list of HTML tags and attributes,  and a list of CSS selectors, properties and values
remember those are the main focuses for right now.


W3SCHOOLS 1.2 - HTML tag reference
Ok so when we go to w3schools.com we see a HTML reference button, I'm going to open this in a new window.
now see an alphabetized list of all the HTML tags. each tag name is on the left  and a description is on the right.

Lets open the a tag also know as the anchor tag
and we want to focus at 3 main thing. 1st is the working example, you click on the try it yourself button, to see one for the anchor tag.

below you find the 2nd main focus, the definition and how the tag is used, this will explain why you would use this tag over any other tag.

and 3rd is the attribute list, so these are the ones that we can add to this tag.




W3SCHOOLS 1.3 - HTML attribute reference
Now lets move to the HTML attribute reference, we'll go back tab and on the left is the attributes reference, open this up and its a list of all the extra things we can add to HTML tags.

We can see what the attribute name is, the elements it can be added to, and a description on what it does.


I was specifically curious about the alt attribute on an img tag so I'll find the example for that one. click this button to see how it works
you can change it properties and values here also, just click run to see what changes would. its a quick place to test stuff out.

Thats HTML for now. since we only want to care about learning tags and attributes right now.



W3SCHOOLS 1.4 - CSS property reference
Lets do the other half, back on the homepage lets open up the CSS reference. here is a large list of CSS properties, they are grouped up to give you an overview.
and as you scroll down you can see see the individual properties.

Remember these properties can be applied to any tag, lets find one we want to use, lets look at adding a background-image.
we can see an example, selecting the body tag and adding a background image to it.
when to use the property, how the property is written in css and then the possible values you can add in.
again the working example is where you can see how it would be writing in HTML and CSS.

These examples always use the HTML style tag, this is a way to add CSS to HTML without the separate CSS file. its known as a internal style tag you can look up the style tag in the HTML reference for more info.



W3SCHOOLS 1.5 - CSS selector reference
and last we go back to the CSS reference and open up CSS Selectors to see the list of ways to choose HTML elements to style
lets look at the HTML element selector we used earlier.

we can see an example, how to use it and the syntax to create it.


W3SCHOOLS 1.6 - Outro to video for w3schools
So this is going to be a great dictionary for you as you begin to learn. Make to to book mark it and reference it often when you come across new attributes or selectors.

Remember to try and keep the HTML - elements, tag and attributes separate from the CSS things, selectors properties and values.
